<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-GB" xml:lang="en-GB" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
		<title>Kybalion_REF-7</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body id="Kybalion_REF-7">
		<div id="_idContainer017" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 class="section"><span class="section _idGenCharOverride-1">II. THE PRINCIPLE OF CORRESPONDENCE</span></h2>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer018" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="quote"><span class="quote _idGenCharOverride-1">“As above, so below; as below, so above.” </span></p>
			<p class="quote ParaOverride-3"><span class="quote _idGenCharOverride-1">— THE KYBALION</span></p>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer019" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="text"><span class="text _idGenCharOverride-1">This Principle embodies the truth that there is always a Correspondence between the laws and phenomena of the various planes of Being and Life. The old Hermetic axiom ran in these words: “As above, so below; as below, so above.” And the grasping of this Principle gives one the means of solving many a dark paradox, and hidden secret of Nature. There are planes beyond our knowing, but when we apply the Principle of Correspondence to them we are able to understand much that would otherwise be unknowable to us. This Principle is of universal application and manifestation, on the various planes of the material, mental, and spiritual universe — it is an Universal Law. The ancient Hermetists considered this Principle as one of the most important mental instruments by which man was able to pry aside the obstacles which hid from view the Unknown. Its use even tore aside the Veil of Isis to the extent that a glimpse of the face of the goddess might be caught. Just as a knowledge of the Principles of Geometry enables man to measure distant suns and their movements, while seated in his observatory, so a knowledge of the Principle of Correspondence enables Man to reason intelligently from the Known to the Unknown. Studying the monad, he understands the archangel. </span></p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>