<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-GB" xml:lang="en-GB" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
		<title>Kybalion_REF-8</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body id="Kybalion_REF-8">
		<div id="_idContainer020" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 class="section"><span class="section _idGenCharOverride-1">III. THE PRINCIPLE OF VIBRATION.</span></h2>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer021" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="quote"><span class="quote _idGenCharOverride-1">“Nothing rests; everything moves; everything vibrates.” </span></p>
			<p class="quote ParaOverride-2"><span class="quote CharOverride-1">— THE KYBALION.</span></p>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer022" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="text"><span class="text _idGenCharOverride-1">This Principle embodies the truth that “everything is in motion”; “everything vibrates”; “nothing is at rest”; facts which Modern Science endorses, and which each new scientific discovery tends to verify. And yet this Hermetic Principle was enunciated thousands of years ago, by the Masters of Ancient Egypt. This Principle explains that the differences between different manifestations of Matter, Energy, Mind, and even Spirit, result largely from varying rates of Vibration. From THE ALL, which is Pure Spirit, down to the grossest form of Matter, all is in vibration — the higher the vibration, the higher the position in the scale. The vibration of Spirit is at such an infinite rate of intensity and rapidity that it is practically at rest — just as a rapidly moving wheel seems to be motionless. And at the other end of the scale, there are gross forms of matter whose vibrations are so low as to seem at rest. Between these poles, there are millions upon millions of varying degrees of vibration. From corpuscle and electron, atom and molecule, to worlds and universes, everything is in vibratory motion. This is also true on the planes of energy and force (which are but varying degrees of vibration); and also on the mental planes (whose states depend upon vibrations); and even on to the spiritual planes. An understanding of this Principle, with the appropriate formulas, enables Hermetic students to control their own mental vibrations as well as those of others. The Masters also apply this Principle to the conquering of Natural phenomena, in various ways. “He who understands the Principle of Vibration, has grasped the sceptre of power,” says one of the old writers.</span></p>
		</div>
</body>
</html>